docs/source/getting_started.rst, before:

===============
Getting Started
===============

Now that you have installed the Fixit package, the next step towards integrating it in your repository
is to create a config file.


Configuration File
==================

1. To start, run::

    python -m fixit.common.cli.init_config

to create a `.fixit.config.yaml` populated with some defaults in the current working directory.

2. Next, you may want to edit or add some specific settings. The available configurations are

- `block_list_patterns`: A list of patterns that indicate when a file should not be linted. For example::

    block_list_patterns: ['@generated', '@nolint']

- `block_list_rules`: A list of rules (whether custom or from Fixit) that should not be applied to the repository.
- `fixture_dir`: The directory in which fixtures files required for unit testing are to be found. This is only necessary if you are testing rules that use a metadata cache (see :ref:`AwaitAsyncCallRule` for an example of such a rule). This can be an absolute path, or a path relative to `repo_root` (see below).
- `formatter`: A list of the formatter commands to use after a lint is complete. For example: `[black, -]`
- `packages`: The Python packages in which to search for lint rules. For example::

    packages: [fixit.rules, my.custom.package]

- `repo_root`: The path to the repository root. This can be a relative path or an absolute path::

    repo_root: .

- `rule_config`: Rule-specific configurations. For example::

    ImportConstraintsRule:
        fixit:
            rules: [["*", "allow"]]

(see :ref:`ImportConstraintsRule` for more details on this example)

3. A `fixit.config.yaml` example::

    block_list_patterns:
    - '@generated'
    - '@nolint'
    block_list_rules:
    - BlockListedRule
    fixture_dir: ./tests/fixtures
    formatter:
    - black
    - '-'
    packages:
    - fixit.rules
    repo_root: .
    rule_config:
        ImportConstraintsRule:
            fixit:
                rules: [["*", "allow"]]

... with some example values for each setting.

Commit message:

Section on adding package, rebase

docs/source/getting_started.rst, after:

===============
Getting Started
===============

Now that you have installed the Fixit package, the next step towards integrating it in your repository
is to create a config file.


Configuration File
==================

1. To initialize a configuration file populated with some defaults, run::

    python -m fixit.common.cli.init_config

This will create a default `.fixit.config.yaml` in the current working directory.

2. Next, you may want to edit or add some specific settings. The available configurations are

- `block_list_patterns`: A list of patterns that indicate when a file should not be linted. For example::

    block_list_patterns: ['@generated', '@nolint']

- `block_list_rules`: A list of rules (whether custom or from Fixit) that should not be applied to the repository.
- `fixture_dir`: The directory in which fixtures files required for unit testing are to be found. This is only necessary if you are testing rules that use a metadata cache (see :ref:`AwaitAsyncCallRule` for an example of such a rule). This can be an absolute path, or a path relative to `repo_root` (see below).
- `formatter`: A list of the formatter commands to use after a lint is complete. For example: `[black, -]`
- `packages`: The Python packages in which to search for lint rules. For example::

    packages: [fixit.rules, my.custom.package]

- `repo_root`: The path to the repository root. This can be a relative path or an absolute path::

    repo_root: .

- `rule_config`: Rule-specific configurations. For example::

    ImportConstraintsRule:
        fixit:
            rules: [["*", "allow"]]

(see :ref:`ImportConstraintsRule` for more details on this example)

3. A `fixit.config.yaml` example::

    block_list_patterns:
    - '@generated'
    - '@nolint'
    block_list_rules:
    - BlockListedRule
    fixture_dir: ./tests/fixtures
    formatter:
    - black
    - '-'
    packages:
    - fixit.rules
    repo_root: .
    rule_config:
        ImportConstraintsRule:
            fixit:
                rules: [["*", "allow"]]

... with some example values for each setting.


Enforcing Custom Rules
======================

After finishing up the configuration, you may want to enforce some custom lint rules in your repository.

1. Start by creating a directory where your custom rules will live. Make sure to include an `__init__.py` file so that the directory is importable as a package.
This and simply be an empty file. For example::

    my_repo_root
        └── lint
            └── custom_rules
                └── __init__.py

2. Include the dotted name of the package in the `.fixit.config.yaml` file under the `packages` setting::

    packages:
    - fixit.rules
    - lint.custom_rules

3. See the :doc:`Build a Lint Rule <build_a_lint_rule>` page for more details on how to write the logic for a custom lint rule.
